I wanna make a call to
a third party API and
I wanna do that using a secure API token.
So there are a lot of
ways that we can do this.
The way that I'm going to do it is
we're gonna use something called
the Open Movie Database.
It's very similar to IMDb,
except it gives us access to an API.
And so that is in here,
I think I have it opened somewhere.
Did I not open that one?
Here it is, OMDb API.
So go to omdbapi.com and
then register for an API key.
And you can get in there for free,
just put in your your email.
I think it filters for disposable emails,
so just use a user actual email.
It's gonna email you the API key,
And I've already got one.
So I'm not gonna, or actually, I think
I might need to cuz I don't think I,
Let's do it.
I think I have mine on the other, Email.
A key has already been assigned
to that email address.
Okay, let's open my email and
find that key.
Okay, so I've got that key.
And so you are gonna need this key to
do the next piece cuz I'm not gonna be
sharing mine.
So make sure that you get that pulled up.
And then once you've got it, we can
manage this a couple different ways.
The way that I like to do
it is with a .env file.
So we can do .env or we can actually
use netlify's environment variables.
We'll end up using both and
I'll show you some cool stuff about
the the netlify environment variables.
But for getting started quickly,
we can just do .env and let me see,
I think I have an extension installed
that's gonna let me do this.
OMDB_API_KEY =, okay, so
that's not masked yet.
So I'm actually gonna
pull this off screen.
Now, I'm gonna pull
the whole thing off screen.
All right, so I have saved that and
let me install,
actually I wanna be able to
show you what's going on here.
So now, I have just installed
an extension called Cloak.
And so we can see here my API key is set,
but it's hidden, which is very nice.
So now, I can show my .env
without sharing API keys.
And what I just demonstrated inadvertently
is why it's important to be able to
keep these things secret because I can't
just put this in the client side code.
If I put it into client side code, so
let's say I go into my, where's it,
here, and I wanted to write something
secret and I go into the index and
I try to add some code here
that's like my, Super secret.
Right?
Now, I put this in my code and
I go out here and I look and
any mischievous third party now,
let me actually start the server,
so it's running, Can go in here,
inspect elements.
They're gonna come down, they're gonna
look, they're gonna notice, hey,
there's some script stuff happening,
I'm gonna look at this.
And they're gonna end up getting in
here and they're gonna poke around and
they're eventually gonna find, no,
here's my super secret, and it's exposed.
Now, they've got it, they can go
impersonate me, they can go do mischief
in my name, and the only people doing
mischief in my name should be me.
So we can't do this, we can't put secret
keys in the client side code, and
that means that we need to
do something different.
And fortunately, serverless
functions do not expose their code.
If I go look at the the browser here,
we can see that up here somewhere
we've gotta call the movies, right?
Now, I can poke around,
I can see the headers.
All right, I can see here's some headers.
All right, I can see we got a response,
we got request headers,
and then I just get back the data,
but I can't find anything.
If I go directly to this as well, let me,
can I just open this in another browser?
Let's go over here.
All right, and I'm gonna inspect.
There's no data here, I can't see
the source of a serverless function.
This is protected.
So the actual code that runs in the
serverless function is not accessible in
the browser, which means that I can
use secret keys in it without exposing
them to people who are snooping around.
And that means that I can
successfully protect my mischief.
Again, I'm the only one who
can do mischief in my name.
So let's use this API key that we just
created to update our movies and
we'll add in some scores.
I wanna show like the Rotten Tomato score,
Metacritic, things like that.
To do that, I'm going to head over
to my movies serverless function and
we're gonna add some stuff to it.
So we're still loading
the movies from JSON, but
now we're gonna add a couple extra pieces.
I need to construct a URL, so
I'm gonna use the built in require URL.
This is a node, like a node built
in that lets us use the URL API.
So I'm gonna use that to
construct the query string and
to build out an API URL instead of trying
to do string concatenation and stuff.
And then I wanna use fetch and
I wanna use the regular fetch API and
that's why we needed to include
node fetch as a dependency.
So as you can see here,
we have one dependency of node fetch.
Node fetch is a very lightweight module.
If I look at node fetch itself
in my node modules, where is it?
It is here.
We can see that node fetch
itself has no dependencies.
So it's a tiny little polyfill that
lets us use the fetch API in node.
It's very nice, it doesn't add
a lot of overhead to our apps, and
it creates a lot of consistency where the
same code that I write on the browser is
the same code that I'll write
in node to do the same things.